I. 研究概述常用句型

\1. Previous research has shown that …

\2. In most studies of … attention has been given to …

\3. The previous work on … has indicated that it is …

\4. … models have been proven useful in …

\5. There have been a few studies highlighting …

\6. Great concern have arisen … due to the increasing number of …

\7. Most … conduct … testing on … to monitor … performance.

\8. However, the problems exist in …

\9. However, there appears to have …

\10. Because of …, … is impossible.

II. 研究范围 常用句型

\1. With the aim of …

\2. This paper is intended to …

\3. This paper aims at providing …

\4. The primary goal of this research is …

\5. The overall objective of his study is …

\6. The author(s) made this study in order to find …

\7. The objective of his investigation is/was to …

\8. The intention of this paper is to survey …

\9. This paper deals with …

\10. This report concentrates on …

\11. This paper begins with the discussion of …

\12. The paper addresses the problem of …

\13. The greatest emphasis has been on …

\14. This paper reviews / summarizes the theory from … viewpoint, discusses … and presents …

\15. Based on …, … is described / discussed / presented / analyzed / dealt with this paper.

\16. The influence of … on … is investigated.

\17. In this paper, … is discussed / explored / analyzed.

\18. This paper analyzes some important characteristics of …

\19. The paper / article / report / study / investigation / author / writer describes …

\20. The importance of … is discussed and the solution to … is addressed in this paper.

III. 研究方法 常用句型

\1. This is a working theory based on the idea that …

\2. One of the great advantage of this method is …

\3. The test is demonstrated by using …

\4. A new method for solving this problem is presented …

\5. The experiments on … have been carried out using …

\6. The tests were carried out on …

\7. The analysis was made with …

\8. The technique applied is referred to as …

\9. The experiment consisted of …

\10. The theory is characterized by …

\11. This formula is verified by …

\12. The mechanism of … is examined.

\13. The dependence of … was established. 

\14. The method used in the study is known as …

\15. The research has recorded valuable data using the newly-developed method.

IV. 研究结果介绍 常用句型

\1. The results obtained are …

\2. Studies have shown that …

\3. Results show that …

\4. The experimental results are summarized as follows.

\5. It was found / observed between / in …

\6. It has proved that …

\7. New evidence indicates that …

\8. The research work has brought about a discovery of …

\9. A new model was found that …

\10. We have found that …

V. 研究结论 常用句型

\1. It is concluded that …

\2. The paper concludes that …

\3. The findings of the research have led to the conclusion that …

\4. Such a statistical method has been applied to …

\5. Recommendations are made regarding …

\6. The author proposes an approach to …

\7. The fruitful work gives the explanation of …

\8. The research conducted suggests that …

\9. Suggestions were made for further study of …

\10. It is suggested that …



## **Introduction部分写作指南**

1.陈述研究背景，以及本篇论文的研究价值、意义
2.指出该领域存在的问题，争议
3.确定本篇论文聚焦的主题或关键词
4.对该领域之前工作作一个的概览和回顾
5.简要介绍本篇论文的工作和创新点

## **下面列举一些Introduction中可能经常用到的句式**

***强调研究主题的重要性：\***
***(显式重要型)\***
**X is fundamental to ...**
X has a pivotal role in ...
X is frequently prescribed for ...
X is fast becoming a key instrument in ...
X plays a vital role in the metabolism of ...
**X plays a critical role in the maintenance of ...**
X is **essential** for a wide range of technologies.
X can play an important role in addressing the issue of ...
There is evidence that X plays a crucial role in xxx ...
**(隐式重要型)**
The issue of X has received considerable critical attention.
The past decade has seen the rapid development of X in many ...
X is a common condition which has considerable impact on ...
Since it was reported in 2002, X has been attracting a lot of interest.
Recently, a considerable literature has grown up around the theme of ...
Evidence suggests that X is among the most important factors for ...
In the history of xxx, X has been thought of as a key factor in ... Xs are one of the most widely used groups of Y and have been extensively used  for ...

***强调这个领域研究者和相关工作较少(你懂得)：\***
XXX had been a largely under explored domain(under 表否定、下等)
too little work has been devoted to  

***强调当前研究中存在的困难\***
**One of the main obstacles ...**
One of the greatest challenges ...
A key issue is the safe disposal of ...
The main disadvantage of X is that ...
X is associated with increased risk of ...
It is now well established that X can impair ...(impair 损害)
X has led to the declines in the populations of ...
X is a growing public xxx concern in xxx.
X is one of the most frequently stated problems with ...
The main challenge faced by many experiments is the ...
Lack of X has existed as a xxx problem for many years.
X is a major public  problem, and the main cause of ...
Xs are one of the most rapidly declining groups of insects in ...
X is the leading cause of death in xxx.
Despite its long  success, X has a number of problems in use.
There is increasing concern that some Xs are being disadvantaged ...
There is an urgent need to address the safety problems caused by ...
Questions have been raised about the safety of the prolonged use of ...
The prevalence of X is increasing at an alarming rate in all age groups.
Despite its safety and efficacy, X suffers from several major drawbacks:
Along with this growth in X, however, there is increasing concern over ...
X is increasingly recognised as a serious, worldwide public  concern.
X and its consequences are an important, but understudied, cause for concern.


***强调研究中存在的困难还可以用如下说法(注意加一些转折副词, however, nevertheless...)：\***
X may cause ...
X is limited by ...
**X suffers from ..**.
X is too expensive to be used for ...
X has accentuated the problem of ...
the performance of X is limited by ...
X could be a contributing factor to ...
the synthesis of X remains a major challenge.
X can be extremely harmful to xxx.
research has consistently shown that X lacks ...
a major problem with this kind of application is ...
the determination of X is technically challenging.
current methods of X have proven to be unreliable.
these rapid changes are having a serious effect on ...
X can be adversely affected under certain conditions.
observations have indicated a serious decline in the population of ...

## ***文献概述常用句式:\***

**Recent evidence suggests that ...**
Previous studies have reported ...
Several studies have documented ...
Studies of X show the importance of ...
Several attempts have been made to ...
**A number of researchers have reported ...**
Previous research comparing X and Y has found ...
Existing research recognizes the critical role played by ...
Recently investigators have examined the effects of X on Y.
Surveys such as that conducted by Smith (1988) showed that ...
Factors found to be influencing X have been explored in several studies.
Studies over the past two decades have provided important information on ...
A considerable amount of literature has been published on X. These studies ...
In the past two decades, a number of researchers have sought to determine ...
There have been a number of longitudinal studies involving X that have reported ...

***It has been + ()型:(小伙伴们最喜欢的It is xxx that句式来了，初中英语必备^_^)\***
noted that ...
argued that ...
shown that ...
reported that ...
assumed that ...
suggested that ... established that ... demonstrated that .... conclusively shown that ...

***强调研究的价值和意义\***
This research **sheds new light on** ...
This study provides new insights into ...
The study **offers** some important insights into ...
The present study fills a gap in the literature by ...
Understanding the link between X and Y will help ...
The present research explores, for the first time, the effects of ...
The findings should **make an important contribution to the field of** ....
This study provides an exciting opportunity to **advance** our knowledge of ...
This study **aims to contribute to** this growing area of research by exploring ...
Therefore, this study makes a major contribution to research on X by **demonstrating** ... 

***概括本篇论文的结构(一般写在Introduction最后)\***

The first section of this paper will examine...
My thesis is composed of four themed chapters.
The essay has been organised in the following way.
The remaining part of the paper proceeds as follows: ...
The main issues addressed in this paper are: a), b and c).
This paper has been divided into four parts. The first part deals with ...
**The contributions of this paper can be summarized as follows:(很常见的句式，简单)**
The overall structure of the study takes the form of six chapters, including this introductory chapter. Chapter Two **begins by laying out** the theoretical dimensions of the research, and looks at how ... The  third chapter is concerned with the methodology used for this study.
The fourth section presents the findings of the research, **focusing on** the three key themes that ... Chapter 6 **analyses the results of** interviews and focus group discussions undertaken during ...

编辑于 2019-08-02

[科学引文索引（SCI）](https://www.zhihu.com/topic/19672559)

[英语学习](https://www.zhihu.com/topic/19558435)

[学术论文](https://www.zhihu.com/topic/19632766)